Example: * Notlob
Description: A parrot that assigns a value to everything he hears, and repeats the lines back in his preferred order.

The Table of Parrot Quips holds the lines that the parrot has heard, along with a score indicating how much the parrot likes each one, and a usage count to limit the number of times he repeats each one. We use a dynamic table, rather than three lists, because we need to keep the score and usage count associated with the correct text: table sorting keeps rows together, but lists can only be sorted independently of each other.

	{*}"Notlob"
	
	Include Dynamic Tables by Tara McGrew.
	
	Pet Shoppe is a room. "A sign reads: 'If you're looking for pets, look no further! Pets are something we sell and you can buy them from us.'"
	
	The parrot is an animal in the Pet Shoppe. "A parrot is perched here." Instead of buying the parrot, say "Except that one."
	
	Table of Parrot Quips
	quip text	quip score	usage count
	indexed text	a number	a number
	
	The highest quip score is a number that varies. The highest quip score is 0.
	
	After answering the parrot that:
		let the textual quip be indexed text;
		let the textual quip be the topic understood;
		let the current quip score be the calculated quip score of the textual quip;
		if the number of blank rows in the Table of Parrot Quips is 0, change the Table of Parrot Quips to have (2 * the number of rows in the Table of Parrot Quips) rows;
		choose a blank row in the Table of Parrot Quips;
		now the quip text entry is the textual quip;
		now the quip score entry is the current quip score;
		now the usage count entry is 0;
		sort the Table of Parrot Quips in reverse quip score order;
		if the current quip score is greater than the highest quip score:
			say "The parrot listens intently, whistling with excitement.";
			now the highest quip score is the current quip score;
		otherwise:
			say "The parrot listens."
	
	To decide which number is the calculated quip score of (msg - indexed text):
		let msg be msg in lower case;
		let the result be 0;
		repeat with N running from 1 to the number of characters in msg:
			let C be character number N in msg;
			if C is "p" or C is "a" or C is "r" or C is "o" or C is "t", increase the result by 1;
		decide on the result.
	
	Every turn when the highest quip score is greater than 0:
		choose row 1 in the Table of Parrot Quips;
		say "The parrot squawks, '[quip text entry]'";
		increase the usage count entry by 1;
		if the usage count entry is 3:
			blank out the whole row;
			if the number of filled rows in the Table of Parrot Quips is 0:
				now the highest quip score is 0;
			otherwise:
				sort the Table of Parrot Quips in reverse quip score order;
				choose row 1 in the Table of Parrot Quips;
				now the highest quip score is the quip score entry.
	
	Test me with "say hello polly / say hello polly parrot / say i've got a lovely fresh cuttlefish for you / say pining for the fjords / z / z / z / z".

